---
title:      Stanford Letter
date:       2024-03-29 11:51:45
categories: [blog]
tags: [Stanford]
---

I'm pretty late with this blog post, with cancun two weeks ago and last week being busy, but now felt like a fitting time to catch up (even though I should be working on editing my HSF scholarship essay). 
# College letters
Final update on colleges:
- A&M: accepted
- UT: accepted
- Rice: accepted
- Carnegie Mellon: waitlisted
- Duke: rejected (3.1% acceptance rate!)
- Stanford: rejected



Stanford came in unexpectedly today. My friend texted me that results were out while I was dropping my girlfriend off, so I rushed home to open it, and it said I got rejected. To be honest I'm not sure how to feel about it. Stanford has been in my head since my freshman year, before I even knew what made a university great, or how high I would really have to go to make it there. Back then, my only concern was being a starter on the football team, and I felt smart because I had all A's. I wanted to be really great at both: a great football player, and the smart kid that got into the hardest school. I wasn't very good at football though, no matter how hard I worked, and I felt ashamed. This was my one life, how could I not be great? So I told myself I would get into Stanford. From football, I had adopted a mentality that I had to be the very best, and I had to outwork everybody to do it. I envisioned myself being a tech leader of the world, the next Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, and so the logical first step was getting into the best school. Junior year it felt like I was really locking in: I was suddenly taking 6 AP classes, I started learning a little bit about AI, I got into GT mentorship, I was playing on varsity for the first time, and I even started a nonprofit. I worked even harder fall of senior year, as I dove deeper into AI, pushed forward with the nonprofit, learned Rust, and worked for hours and hours on those stupid essays. It was like trying to chase after a star, because no matter how far forward I moved, the gap between me and that school was the same. At 18, I was competing with kids who had gone to the international science fair, competed on national STEM teams, and had much better grades and SAT than I did. Looking at it from that perspective, it makes sense that I didn't get in.

## Was it worth it?
Despite my complaining in that last paragraph, the answer is without a doubt yes. This past year I have worked harder than I ever have in my life, pushing myself to learn and do as much as possible with the limited time I have to get into a great college, and I've found that I've been really happy. I have a strong sense of purpose, I can't get enough of the things I learn, and I've started spending more time with people that better understand me and the goals I have in life. Without that north star of Stanford, I would have never pushed myself as hard as I did, and I would not have the excellent choices for university that I do now. That rejection letter isn't pretty, but I'm so glad I tried.

## What's next?
As I start university, I will have learned from my high school mistakes. I will be (and am) seeking opportunities right from the start. I never was as successful as I could have been these last 4 years because I simply didn't know about things I should have applied for, like summer programs, internships, online courses, etc. I'll take a more active role in seeking opportunities so this won't happen again. Besides that, really I just need to keep working hard to learn. To be a proficient researcher/entrepreneur, especially in computer science, I need to learn much more than what they'll be teaching me in my classes. In this area, though, I feel that I have a major advantage because of my natural curiosity. I never know how to say this without sounding weird, but *I really love to learn.* I've learned so much about computer science, like AI, operating systems, streaming functions, programming languages, and networks, and all of it has been for free online. I've read books on so many different topics this year, and I have many more planned. There's so much I'm going to learn in college, and I genuinely can't wait. So, all in all, it sucks that I didn't get into Stanford like I wanted, but I'm proud of the work I've done, and I plan on doing much much more as I move into the future

## Last updates for the week
- FINALLY BUILT MY BOAT. The first one snapped in half and I sank into the water, but the second one was successful, and we were able to fit four people on it and get accross the water safely. Now I just have to figure out if there really are alligators.
- Tested my data compression algorithm on ECG data, and reduced to under half its size, which felt good. Next I'm going to be implementing more functions to flesh out my domain specific language for streaming algorithms, and pretty soon I'll be done with GT mentorship.
- Still have to turn in my applications for the HSF scholarship and the UT Freshman Research Initiative, but those will get done tomorrow.
- Finished Thinking in Bets and Poisonwood Bible, so next I will be reading Understanding Deep Learning and listening to 100 years of solitude (my mom's favorite book, written by a Colombian author). Might talk more about my thoughts on these books next week.