---
title: 2024 Wrapped
date: 2024-12-22 11:55:20 -0600
categories: [General]
---

It's the end of 2024. Thinking about where I am now, I am the most accomplished and disciplined I have ever been. I have taught myself enough math and deep learning to be competent in discussing models and current research in AI. I learned Rust under a professor at Rice (the third programming language I now feel confident in), creating several complex algorithms under a time pressure and senior year of high school. I finished 13 books and read sections of many more. During powerlifting I hit new personal records on bench, squat, and deadlift, with a sum total of ~990 pounds (don't quite remember my deadlift). I've started putting actual effort into my appearance and the way I dress, and I have all but cut sweets and soft drinks out of my diet. On top of all this, I honestly enjoyed myself this year. After talking about it for a year, I finally built the boat I wanted. I was fortunate enough to be able to travel to Cancun, Colombia, and LA. I met a lot of new people in college, even went to a couple parties. 

Frankly, however, there's a lot more I want. By the end of high school, even though I didn't get Stanford, I felt very confident. I felt like I was smarter, more motivated, and more disciplined than many of the people around me, almost like I was guaranteed success. In college, though, this feeling of certainty has practically disappeared. I have seen first hand the things college students my age and older are able to accomplish, and now I know that I need to do more, be hungrier.

The realization I've come to this semester is that I need to build my practical programming skills. I've never built a front end or written javascript without the help of ChatGPT. I have a poor understanding of server side programming. I've never made or deployed a database. I haven't made any actual tools that I would use and I have never contributed to any real world projects. I've never trained anything more than a toy classification model, nor have I replicated any papers. My understanding of mechanistic interpretability and reinforcement learning are surface level, despite the vast research going on in these fields. These skills are the gap between where I am and where I want to be, a versatile programmer that can build real world applications and is really able to do great research, not just read about it. My goal for 2025 is to become a better builder. It will take hours of brittle work (it's tedious and slow to learn to use tools like SQL and transformerlens), but the more I build the more I will be able to build. It's just a question of time investment, and by this time next year hopefully this blog will be filled out with great projects and hopefully real research. I'm looking forward to 2025. 

## Books
For anyone curious, these are the books I read (seems like a long list until you hear that my sister read 40 books):
- Demon Copperhead
- One Hundred Years of Solitude
- The Selfish Gene
- Great Expectations
- Pride and Prejudice
- The Count of Monte Christo
- The Great Gatsby
- The adventures of Huckleberry Finn
- James
- The Sparrow
- Thinking in Bets
- American Prometheus
- Vector Calculus (first textbook I've ever read front to back)

I'm currently about 70% done with Dead Souls by Nikolai Gogol, and I also spent a lot of time this year reading Understanding Deep Learning, the best ML textbook I've seen yet. Out of all these books, my favorite was probably One Hundred Years of Solitude, although that one is a little intense to read, so the one I'd recommend the strongest is Demon Copperhead. I read the whole thing in 4 days because I could just not put it down. Right now I'm also working through Fly by Night Physics and Theoretical Neuroscience, both of which I hope to finish throughout the next year, although the list of books I want to read is too long to put here. Reading has become one of my favorite pastimes, and I will definitely be continuing this in 2025. If you have any book recs definitely let me know. 
